
# Our Question
*What student lifestyle factors are most strongly associated with high academic performance?*

# Background Information on the Dataset
Academic performance is related to numerous factors, far more than just raw intellect or God-given ability. Educational Psychology research continuously points to lifestyle factors as powerful predictors or signs of whether a student will succeed or struggle. Some of these include time management, sleep, overall stress, and social commitments. Even though these conclusions are widely known, many institutions still choose to solely rely on prior grades to try and weed out at risk students, often overlooking the behavioral and socio-economic environment signals that may be equally or more informative. The goal of this project is this to figure out *what student lifestyle factors are most strongly associated with high academic performance?* By isolating which habits and circumstances correlate most strongly to a student's final exam score, it can be better understood what drives success in the classroom, and hopefully provide a way to have data driven academic interventions before it becomes a real issue for the student.

To dive into this issue, we used a **dataset of 8,000 students, containing 17 unique features that span a diverse range of academic and lifestyle dimensions.** These features are both numerical and categorical. For the numerical features, it includes things like hours studied per week, class attendance rate, average sleep hours, self-assessed stress level, daily screen time, previous GPA, exam anxiety score, and number of tutoring sessions per week. Categorical features are used to capture things like if a student has a part time job, how they choose to study (online/offline/hybrid), diet quality, internet quality, extracurricular participation, as well as household income. Our target variable is Final_Score, a continuous measure ranging from ~22.8 - ~99.8, with the mean score being 83.2. It represents each student's final exam performance. By combining academic habits, physical wellness indicators, as well as socioeconomic conditions, the range of this dataset makes it well suited for exploring the complex nature of a student's success. 

After we reviewed the data set, we hypothesized that hours studied, stress level, and exam anxiety score will emerge as the strongest predictors of final score. These variables seemed to directly reflect a student's engagement and readiness for the class. It is important to note, some factors were considered to be irrelevant or protected classes and were removed from the model training dataset. Additionally, Diet quality and screen time are included as exploratory, to test as to whether physical and behavioral habits carry weight alongside traditional indicators of academic success.
